_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Jiaoyi Zhang"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a Ph.D. candidate in [Institute for Interdisciplinary Information Sciences (IIIS)](https://iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/) at [Tsinghua University](https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/), advised by [Prof. Huanchen Zhang](https://people.iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/~huanchen/). Before coming to Tsinghua, I obtained my bachelor’s degree from Nankai University in 2020. My research interests mainly lie in 
indexing data structures and cloud databases.

## Publications
- **Making In-Memory Learned Indexes Efficient on Disk** [[paper]](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3654954)  
**Jiaoyi Zhang**, Kai Su and Huanchen Zhang  
*Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data* (**SIGMOD'24**), 2(3): Article 151, 26 pages.


- **CARMI: A Cache-Aware Learned Index with a Cost-based Construction Algorithm** [[paper]](https://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol15/p2679-gao.pdf)  
**Jiaoyi Zhang**, and Yihan Gao  
*Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment* (**VLDB'22**), 15(11), pp. 2679–2691.

## Education
- **Tsinghua University**  
Ph.D. Candidate in computer science at [IIIS](https://iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/), advised by [Prof. Huanchen Zhang](https://people.iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/~huanchen/). Sept. 2020 - present.

- **Nankai University**  
B.S. in Computer Science and Technology at [College of Computer Science](https://encc.nankai.edu.cn/). Sept. 2016 - June 2020.

## Experiences
- **Alibaba Group**  
Research intern in Database and Storage Lab, Alibaba Cloud Intelligence.  
Mentor: Dr. Sheng Wang. March 2024 - present.

## Teaching
- **Teaching Assistant** - Data Mining, Fall 2020.

## Awards
- Excellent Comprehensive Scholarship of IIIS, 2023  
- Excellent Comprehensive Scholarship of Tsinghua University (12%), 2022
- Outstanding Graduates of Nankai University (4%), 2020
- National Scholarship (1%), 2019
- National Scholarship (1%), 2018
- Gong-Neng Scholarship of Nankai University (5%), 2017

Commit message:

Update about page with paper code and link

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Jiaoyi Zhang"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a Ph.D. candidate in [Institute for Interdisciplinary Information Sciences (IIIS)](https://iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/) at [Tsinghua University](https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/), advised by [Prof. Huanchen Zhang](https://people.iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/~huanchen/). Before coming to Tsinghua, I obtained my bachelor’s degree from Nankai University in 2020. My research interests mainly lie in indexing data structures, AI for DB, data storage and cloud databases.

## Publications
- **Making In-Memory Learned Indexes Efficient on Disk** [[paper]](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3654954) [[code]](https://github.com/JiaoyiZhang/Efficient-Disk-Learned-Index)  
**Jiaoyi Zhang**, Kai Su and Huanchen Zhang  
*Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data* (**SIGMOD'24**), 2(3): Article 151, 26 pages.


- **CARMI: A Cache-Aware Learned Index with a Cost-based Construction Algorithm** [[paper]](https://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol15/p2679-gao.pdf) [[code]](https://github.com/JiaoyiZhang/CARMI)  
**Jiaoyi Zhang**, and Yihan Gao  
*Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment* (**VLDB'22**), 15(11), pp. 2679–2691.

## Education
- **Tsinghua University**  
Ph.D. Candidate in computer science at [IIIS](https://iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/), advised by [Prof. Huanchen Zhang](https://people.iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/~huanchen/). Sept. 2020 - present.

- **Nankai University**  
B.S. in Computer Science and Technology at [College of Computer Science](https://encc.nankai.edu.cn/). Sept. 2016 - June 2020.  

## Experiences
- **Alibaba Group**  
Research intern in Database and Storage Lab, Alibaba Cloud Intelligence.  
Mentor: Dr. Sheng Wang. March 2024 - present.  
Study on improving the usability of secure query processing systems (submitted to SIGMOD’25).

## Teaching
- **Teaching Assistant** - Data Mining, Fall 2020.

## Awards
- Excellent Comprehensive Scholarship of Tsinghua University (12%), 2024
- Excellent Comprehensive Scholarship of IIIS, 2023
- Excellent Comprehensive Scholarship of Tsinghua University (12%), 2022
- Outstanding Graduates of Nankai University (4%), 2020
- National Scholarship (1%), 2019
- National Scholarship (1%), 2018
- Gong-Neng Scholarship of Nankai University (5%), 2017
